It stands for vehicular ad hoc network so it is a wireless ad hoc network that provides communication among vehicles with On Board
units(OBUs) and nearby Road Side Units(RSUs) between cars and trucks and also roadside units such as antennas & buildings. The 
purpose of VANET is to provide: connectivity while on the road to mobile users and Efficient V2V communications that enable the 
(International Transportation System) also known as ITS. VANET differ in size & speed of vehicles, relevance of geographic 
positions due to these differences it shows many challenging research issues such as routing, data replication, data sharing and
data security. So why we want digital communication between them & the reason is we want digital communication between anything to 
relay information like Internet information so that we can communicate between vehicles as we can see in red lines. There are three 
types of communication in VANET there are V2V communication, vehicle-to-roadside communication and inter-roadside communication.In 
v2v communication we communicate between various vehicles, whereas in vehicle-to-roadside communication we communicate between 
vehicles & roadside units it could be a grocery store or a land, it could be traffic light could be anything that's on the roadside. 
The blue lines here indicate vehicle-to-roadside communication. In inter roadside communication we have communication between two 
traffic lights or between traffic light and other types of devices so let's take a look at the kinds of things we might do in a 
VANET. There are basically three things that we would do in VANETs one is safety management second is traffic management and third 
is Internet services such as YouTube or any Internet service. 

So let's consider a scenario where car A is very close to car B those two cars might be driving together for quite some time and at 
anytime one car might get too close and can be in a position to get into an accident with the other car if these two cars have digital 
communications that are fast enough to recognize that that's going to happen before it happens it could alert the drivers in future 
versions of cars if those cars had driverless control where there's no driver controlling it theoretically the digital communications 
could make sure that these cars never crashed as long as they had the capability to stop right so safety is a big issue. There can be 
a situations where police vehicles or other types of emergency responders may need to gather information from other vehicles that 
aren't directly within range if all of them have wireless communication devices then the emergency vehicle can get information about 
accidents that it can route itself or find out and whatever it may need to do that's also a safety issue.

VANET communication can be used for many potential applications, some potential application include applications like Collision Alert, 
Road Condition warnings, Merge assistance, Deceleration warning. The main emphasis is considered for safety applications for VANET and 
for this they have to have a timely dissemination of safety critical alters given to nearby vehicles. VANETs can also be used for 
Internet connectivity which would be like accessing emails, web browing, audio & video streaming. These are some connectivity related 
applications where emphasis is on high bandwidth for a stable internet connectivity. GPS & navigation systems can also be benefits 
from VANET communication and they can be integrated with our traffic reports therefore being able to provide the fastest route to 
end users. Destination toll roads can benefit from VANET by automatically collecting tolls. So there are lots of potential application 
of VANET.

Not let's move onto the issues in VANET environment.